Hello everybody and welcome in this lecture.
We're going to jump straight into a challenge.
After that night this should be pretty straightforward.
The night was possibly the most complex piece that we had to make in this section.
So using the mirror modifier again if you wish to I'd like you to go ahead and make your rook pause
a video now and give that a go. Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's hop on over into blender and make our rook. Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's go ahead.
I'm going to open up my bishop and use that as my base piece.
So I've got the right size base.
I'm going to go around to the side view switch into wireframe and go into edit mode so I can select
everything making sure I've got the select tool on I'm going to just chop off everything about their
next delete vertices and we're gone.
Obviously this will leave me with a hole in the top of a switch back to solid shade.
I'm absolutely fine with that.
Let's go ahead turn on our image come out of edit mode and delete the one that's there and then add
another image as a plane.
And I'm going to pick the rook.
And of course the rook is going to be the wrong size as always, Let's go into LookDev mode so I can
see what's going on and the scale it's in until it's roughly right.
Zoom in a little further.
Start scaling again and I'll stop it around four centimeters remember you can hold down the shift key
to be more gradual I'm now going to rotate it's on the X axis by 90 and then it's just a matter of lifting
it up.
So it's on the ground plane G, Z and lift it up.
Now this one's actually a little bit wonky but that's okay we can deal with that as we go.
Right would definitely still working in the bishop file.
This is dangerous.
Whoops.
To save this as rock.
If at any point I'd say save that, I'd have lost my bishop.
Okay okay.
So we've still got the notch in our scene as well let's get rid of that and so we've got a rook and
the staunton rook
Okay.
And we've got this boolean modifier applied.
So I think we're pretty much tidied up and ready to start modelling.
This is a really straightforward model.
I am going to go into edit mode but I'm also going to set the display as to wire so I can see through
highlight this and just start moving things around.
Now much like the Knight this also has a very sharp lip around it.
I'm not sure I'm going to adhere to that on this particular model.
I thought it was very useful with the with the knight itself but with the rock I don't think it's going
to be quite as useful.
I might try it and see how we get on.
Let's move this down a little and this edge the pair and scale it in and then finally this one here
pressing G twice to move it along and then lock it scale that's it.
Okay.
So that's a good start here.
I'm going to grab this edge loop here and literally extrude it straight up
come to the top here extrude by a little bit on the Z axis and scale up or which one to pick.
I'm going to eyeball this because it is going to change and then extrude on the Z axis.
Not all the way I'm going to make these castlements in a moment by insetting but for the moment I'm
happy with how that is.
That looks wonky.
It is wonky.
aw no what happened there.
You know what I'm gonna do here.
I think one side's fine and because this image has been here I've been unable to select.
So this is another benefit of the mirror modifier.
I can look at it from the side that is broken, oh that's disastrous, highlight the select two vertices and
just delete them.
And I'm going to do the same there.
Okay so we've now got half a model and we can add the modifier back in the mirror modifier and they'll
be on the Y axis this time.
Okay.
So unintended consequence of having the image there but never mind.
Let's go in and make a few other changes so this does come in quite a bit more at the top here.
So about there I'm going to bring that in.
Now we have got extra detailing here and I said I would give it a go so let's have a look at that bit
there and then it'd be another bit in the middle as well to bulge out and this is thing if you're not
careful.
You very quickly end up with something that doesn't look quite right because you've added too much detail
into a lower point.
I want this to also scoop up a little bit all the scale that here so follows a nice curve as it goes
up.
We go.
I'm happy with that transition as it goes.
Okay so the very top here.
Let's go back into solid shaded mode and also on our object.
Change it back to solid so we can see what's going on.
I'm going to hide my image for the moment and select the very top face.
Fill it in.
Now when we use the inset tool.
This is where we're gonna have to use a special option when we insert otherwise we're going to end up
with it coming in here.
So what we have an option with is boundary.
We turn that off.
Then the boundary will continue around.
Neat.
Okay.
So we're going to have a bit of an issue of the consonants at the top.
And I've noticed a slight separation here as well.
So whilst I'm dealing with this that's a matter of making sure that everything is selected all the way
through which it is this time.
And then scaling on the y axis local y axis C Pressed twice by zero.
And that should solve all of those issues.
Most are gonna remove doubles make sure of not duplicate.
Okay.
Brilliant.
So now it's just these castlements on the top and we are gonna have an issue with the mirror modifier.
So this is gonna be one of these occasions where I'm going to apply it oh it can't be applied in edit
mode.
Got to remember that.
And then I can select these individually.
Otherwise what will happen is if I was just mirroring that and that one then we'd get that and that
one moving up and I don't I want alternate ones coming up.
There we go.
So if we look at the top of the rock here now it's not lined up perfectly with the ground so I might
change that just for aesthetics really.
Let's lift these up ever so slightly.
That looks good to me and this bit here I'm going to I can't just pull it down ever so slightly.
I'm going to insert it again but I do need to do some other work first because at the moment we're still
going to get this issue here which we didn't have before because of the mirror modifier not in spite of.
I'm going to delete those vertices and I'm going to delete this face I'm going to fill in a new face
along the top and go F to fill.
And now I can inset and then go down slightly and this actually round here I'm also gonna bring that
down.
So it looks a bit better along the top.
Perfect.
So we're going to select my whole model and rotate it by 45 on the z axis.
No no I think it's twenty two and a half.
There we go.
Excellent.
So this is that's just purely aesthetic.
There's no real fundamental reason to do that.
It just happens to be in this case.
That's what's necessary.
Okay.
And we've got an issue at the bottom here that needs to be filled in as well some of the select that
and fill that in and I'm going to save my work.
Okay.
Brilliant.
Whilst I'm thinking about it I'm going to open up my bishop but hasn't got it on the bottom.
Okay.
So it was deleted at some point during the creation that's fine so long as we know why it was deleted.
Let's go back to our Rook.
Excellent.
That's coming along really well.
I'm like in my low poly Rook I'm going to get rid of any mean creases that we've added to this.
We don't need that we're not going to you be using the subdivision surface modifier on this particular
model and then save it once more.
Okay.
Brilliant.
How are you guys getting on looking forward to seeing your rooks please share them over in the discussions and
I'll see you all in the next lecture.